README.md, before:

<h1 align="center">
  <img alt="Logo" src="https://res.cloudinary.com/eliasgcf/image/upload/v1588625369/GoBarber/logo_iw1v9f.svg" width="200px">
</h1>

<h3 align="center">
  Express Application for GoBarber project
</h3>

<p align="center">The best way to schedule your service!</p>

<p align="center">
  <img alt="GitHub top language" src="https://img.shields.io/github/languages/top/EliasGcf/gobarber-api?color=%23FF9000">

  <a href="https://www.linkedin.com/in/eliasgcf/" target="_blank" rel="noopener noreferrer">
    <img alt="Made by" src="https://img.shields.io/badge/made%20by-elias%20gabriel-%23FF9000">
  </a>

  <img alt="Repository size" src="https://img.shields.io/github/repo-size/EliasGcf/gobarber-api?color=%23FF9000">

  <a href="https://github.com/EliasGcf/gobarber-api/commits/master">
    <img alt="GitHub last commit" src="https://img.shields.io/github/last-commit/EliasGcf/gobarber-api?color=%23FF9000">
  </a>

  <a href="https://github.com/EliasGcf/gobarber-api/issues">
    <img alt="Repository issues" src="https://img.shields.io/github/issues/EliasGcf/gobarber-api?color=%23FF9000">
  </a>

  <img alt="GitHub" src="https://img.shields.io/github/license/EliasGcf/gobarber-api?color=%23FF9000">
</p>

<p align="center">
  <a href="#%EF%B8%8F-about-the-project">About the project</a>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;|&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;
  <a href="#-technologies">Technologies</a>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;|&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;
  <a href="#-getting-started">Getting started</a>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;|&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;
  <a href="#-how-to-contribute">How to contribute</a>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;|&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;
  <a href="#-license">License</a>
</p>

<p id="insomniaButton" align="center">
  <a href="https://insomnia.rest/run/?label=PontoLoc&uri=https%3A%2F%2Fraw.githubusercontent.com%2FEliasGcf%2Fpontoloc-api%2Fmaster%2FInsomnia.json" target="_blank"><img src="https://insomnia.rest/images/run.svg" alt="Run in Insomnia"></a>
</p>

## 💇🏻‍♂️ About the project

This API provides everything is necessary to manage all appointments of the barber and your clients.

Clients can schedule the best hour for them, if that are available.

Providers can see all their appointments, manage the times, also see if one client canceled the schedule.

To see the **web client**, click here: [GoBarber Web](https://github.com/EliasGcf/gobarber-web)<br />
To see the **mobile client**, click here: [GoBarber Mobile](https://github.com/EliasGcf/gobarber-mobile)

## 🚀 Technologies

Technologies what I used to desenvolve this api

- [Node.js](https://nodejs.org/en/)
- [TypeScript](https://www.typescriptlang.org/)
- [Express](https://expressjs.com/pt-br/)
- [Multer](https://github.com/expressjs/multer)
- [TypeORM](https://typeorm.io/#/)
- [JWT-token](https://jwt.io/)
- [uuid v4](https://github.com/thenativeweb/uuidv4/)
- [PostgreSQL](https://www.postgresql.org/)
- [Date-fns](https://date-fns.org/)
- [Jest](https://jestjs.io/)
- [SuperTest](https://github.com/visionmedia/supertest)
- [Husky](https://github.com/typicode/husky)
- [Commitlint](https://github.com/conventional-changelog/commitlint)
- [Commitizen](https://github.com/commitizen/cz-cli)
- [Eslint](https://eslint.org/)
- [Prettier](https://prettier.io/)
- [EditorConfig](https://editorconfig.org/)

## 💻 Getting started

Import the `Insomnia.json` on Insomnia App or click on [Run in Insomnia](#insomniaButton) button

### Requirements

- [Node.js](https://nodejs.org/en/)
- [Yarn](https://classic.yarnpkg.com/) or [npm](https://www.npmjs.com/)
- One instance of [PostgreSQL](https://www.postgresql.org/)

> Obs.: I recommend use docker

**Clone the project and access the folder**

```bash
$ git clone https://github.com/EliasGcf/gobarber-api.git && cd gobarber-api
```

**Follow the steps below**

```bash
# Install the dependencies
$ yarn

# Create the instance of postgreSQL using docker
$ docker run --name gobarber-postgres -e POSTGRES_USER=docker \
              -e POSTGRES_DB=gobarber -e POSTGRES_PASSWORD=docker \
              -p 5432:5432 -d postgres

# Make sure the keys in 'ormconfig.json' to connect with your database
# are set up correctly.

# Once the services are running, run the migrations
$ yarn typeorm migration:run

# To finish, run the api service
$ yarn dev:server

# Well done, project is started!
```

## 🤔 How to contribute

**Make a fork of this repository**

```bash
# Fork using GitHub official command line
# If you don't have the GitHub CLI, use the web site to do that.

$ gh repo fork EliasGcf/gobarber-api
```

**Follow the steps below**

```bash
# Clone your fork
$ git clone your-fork-url && cd gobarber-api

# Create a branch with your feature
$ git checkout -b my-feature

# Make the commit with your changes
$ git commit -m 'feat: My new feature'

# Send the code to your remote branch
$ git push origin my-feature
```

After your pull request is merged, you can delete your branch

## 📝 License

This project is licensed under the MIT License - see the [LICENSE](LICENSE) file for details.

---

Made with 💜 by Elias Gabriel 👋 [See my linkedin](https://www.linkedin.com/in/eliasgcf/)

Commit message:

docs: add command to crate instance of mongodb

README.md, after:

<h1 align="center">
  <img alt="Logo" src="https://res.cloudinary.com/eliasgcf/image/upload/v1588625369/GoBarber/logo_iw1v9f.svg" width="200px">
</h1>

<h3 align="center">
  Express Application for GoBarber project
</h3>

<p align="center">The best way to schedule your service!</p>

<p align="center">
  <img alt="GitHub top language" src="https://img.shields.io/github/languages/top/EliasGcf/gobarber-api?color=%23FF9000">

  <a href="https://www.linkedin.com/in/eliasgcf/" target="_blank" rel="noopener noreferrer">
    <img alt="Made by" src="https://img.shields.io/badge/made%20by-elias%20gabriel-%23FF9000">
  </a>

  <img alt="Repository size" src="https://img.shields.io/github/repo-size/EliasGcf/gobarber-api?color=%23FF9000">

  <a href="https://github.com/EliasGcf/gobarber-api/commits/master">
    <img alt="GitHub last commit" src="https://img.shields.io/github/last-commit/EliasGcf/gobarber-api?color=%23FF9000">
  </a>

  <a href="https://github.com/EliasGcf/gobarber-api/issues">
    <img alt="Repository issues" src="https://img.shields.io/github/issues/EliasGcf/gobarber-api?color=%23FF9000">
  </a>

  <img alt="GitHub" src="https://img.shields.io/github/license/EliasGcf/gobarber-api?color=%23FF9000">
</p>

<p align="center">
  <a href="#%EF%B8%8F-about-the-project">About the project</a>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;|&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;
  <a href="#-technologies">Technologies</a>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;|&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;
  <a href="#-getting-started">Getting started</a>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;|&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;
  <a href="#-how-to-contribute">How to contribute</a>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;|&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;
  <a href="#-license">License</a>
</p>

<p id="insomniaButton" align="center">
  <a href="https://insomnia.rest/run/?label=PontoLoc&uri=https%3A%2F%2Fraw.githubusercontent.com%2FEliasGcf%2Fpontoloc-api%2Fmaster%2FInsomnia.json" target="_blank"><img src="https://insomnia.rest/images/run.svg" alt="Run in Insomnia"></a>
</p>

## 💇🏻‍♂️ About the project

This API provides everything is necessary to manage all appointments of the barber and your clients.

Clients can schedule the best hour for them, if that are available.

Providers can see all their appointments, manage the times, also see if one client canceled the schedule.

To see the **web client**, click here: [GoBarber Web](https://github.com/EliasGcf/gobarber-web)<br />
To see the **mobile client**, click here: [GoBarber Mobile](https://github.com/EliasGcf/gobarber-mobile)

## 🚀 Technologies

Technologies what I used to desenvolve this api

- [Node.js](https://nodejs.org/en/)
- [TypeScript](https://www.typescriptlang.org/)
- [Express](https://expressjs.com/pt-br/)
- [Multer](https://github.com/expressjs/multer)
- [TypeORM](https://typeorm.io/#/)
- [JWT-token](https://jwt.io/)
- [uuid v4](https://github.com/thenativeweb/uuidv4/)
- [PostgreSQL](https://www.postgresql.org/)
- [Date-fns](https://date-fns.org/)
- [Jest](https://jestjs.io/)
- [SuperTest](https://github.com/visionmedia/supertest)
- [Husky](https://github.com/typicode/husky)
- [Commitlint](https://github.com/conventional-changelog/commitlint)
- [Commitizen](https://github.com/commitizen/cz-cli)
- [Eslint](https://eslint.org/)
- [Prettier](https://prettier.io/)
- [EditorConfig](https://editorconfig.org/)

## 💻 Getting started

Import the `Insomnia.json` on Insomnia App or click on [Run in Insomnia](#insomniaButton) button

### Requirements

- [Node.js](https://nodejs.org/en/)
- [Yarn](https://classic.yarnpkg.com/) or [npm](https://www.npmjs.com/)
- One instance of [PostgreSQL](https://www.postgresql.org/)

> Obs.: I recommend use docker

**Clone the project and access the folder**

```bash
$ git clone https://github.com/EliasGcf/gobarber-api.git && cd gobarber-api
```

**Follow the steps below**

```bash
# Install the dependencies
$ yarn

# Create the instance of postgreSQL using docker
$ docker run --name gobarber-postgres -e POSTGRES_USER=docker \
              -e POSTGRES_DB=gobarber -e POSTGRES_PASSWORD=docker \
              -p 5432:5432 -d postgres

# Create the instance of mongoDB using docker
$ docker run --name gobarber-mongodb -p 27017:27017 -d -t mongo

# Make sure the keys in 'ormconfig.json' to connect with your database
# are set up correctly.

# Once the services are running, run the migrations
$ yarn typeorm migration:run

# To finish, run the api service
$ yarn dev:server

# Well done, project is started!
```

## 🤔 How to contribute

**Make a fork of this repository**

```bash
# Fork using GitHub official command line
# If you don't have the GitHub CLI, use the web site to do that.

$ gh repo fork EliasGcf/gobarber-api
```

**Follow the steps below**

```bash
# Clone your fork
$ git clone your-fork-url && cd gobarber-api

# Create a branch with your feature
$ git checkout -b my-feature

# Make the commit with your changes
$ git commit -m 'feat: My new feature'

# Send the code to your remote branch
$ git push origin my-feature
```

After your pull request is merged, you can delete your branch

## 📝 License

This project is licensed under the MIT License - see the [LICENSE](LICENSE) file for details.

---

Made with 💜 by Elias Gabriel 👋 [See my linkedin](https://www.linkedin.com/in/eliasgcf/)
